B.2.2 Risks and projected adverse impacts and related losses and damages from climate change will escalate with every
increment of global warming (very high confidence). They are higher for global warming of 1.5°C than at present, and
even higher at 2°C (high confidence). Compared to the AR5, global aggregated risk levels37 (Reasons for Concern38) are
assessed to become high to very high at lower levels of global warming due to recent evidence of observed impacts,
improved process understanding, and new knowledge on exposure and vulnerability of human and natural systems,
including limits to adaptation (high confidence). Due to unavoidable sea level rise (see also B.3), risks for coastal
ecosystems, people and infrastructure will continue to increase beyond 2100 (high confidence). {3.1.2, 3.1.3, Figure 3.4,
Figure 4.3} (Figure SPM.3, Figure SPM.4)
A.2.5 In all regions increases in extreme heat events have resulted in human mortality and morbidity (very high confidence).
The occurrence of climate-related food-borne and water-borne diseases (very high confidence) and the incidence
of vector-borne diseases (high confidence) have increased. In assessed regions, some mental health challenges are
associated with increasing temperatures (high confidence), trauma from extreme events (very high confidence), and
loss of livelihoods and culture (high confidence). Climate and weather extremes are increasingly driving displacement
in Africa, Asia, North America (high confidence), and Central and South America (medium confidence), with small island
states in the Caribbean and South Pacific being disproportionately affected relative to their small population size (high
confidence). {2.1.2, Figure 2.3} (Figure SPM.1) 
B.1.4 With further warming, every region is projected to increasingly experience concurrent and multiple changes in climatic
impact-drivers. Compound heatwaves and droughts are projected to become more frequent, including concurrent
events across multiple locations (high confidence). Due to relative sea level rise, current 1-in-100 year extreme sea
level events are projected to occur at least annually in more than half of all tide gauge locations by 2100 under all
considered scenarios (high confidence). Other projected regional changes include intensification of tropical cyclones
and/or extratropical storms (medium confidence), and increases in aridity and fire weather (medium to high confidence).
{3.1.1, 3.1.3}