B.5.1 From a physical science perspective, limiting human-caused global warming to a specific level requires limiting cumulative
CO2 emissions, reaching at least net zero CO2 emissions, along with strong reductions in other greenhouse gas emissions.
Reaching net zero GHG emissions primarily requires deep reductions in CO2, methane, and other GHG emissions, and
implies net negative CO2 emissions39. Carbon dioxide removal (CDR) will be necessary to achieve net negative CO2
emissions (see B.6). Net zero GHG emissions, if sustained, are projected to result in a gradual decline in global surface
temperatures after an earlier peak. (high confidence) {3.1.1, 3.3.1, 3.3.2, 3.3.3, Table 3.1, Cross-Section Box.1}
B.6.3 Global modelled mitigation pathways reaching net zero CO2 and GHG emissions include transitioning from fossil fuels
without carbon capture and storage (CCS) to very low- or zero-carbon energy sources, such as renewables or fossil fuels
with CCS, demand-side measures and improving efficiency, reducing non-CO2 GHG emissions, and CDR47. In most global
modelled pathways, land-use change and forestry (via reforestation and reduced deforestation) and the energy supply
sector reach net zero CO2 emissions earlier than the buildings, industry and transport sectors. (high confidence) {3.3.3,
4.1, 4.5, Figure 4.1} (Figure SPM.5, Box SPM.1)
C.3.2 Net zero CO2 energy systems entail: a substantial reduction in overall fossil fuel use, minimal use of unabated fossil
fuels51, and use of carbon capture and storage in the remaining fossil fuel systems; electricity systems that emit no
net CO2; widespread electrification; alternative energy carriers in applications less amenable to electrification; energy
conservation and efficiency; and greater integration across the energy system (high confidence). Large contributions
to emissions reductions with costs less than USD 20 tCO2-eq-1 come from solar and wind energy, energy efficiency
improvements, and methane emissions reductions (coal mining, oil and gas, waste) (medium confidence). There are
feasible adaptation options that support infrastructure resilience, reliable power systems and efficient water use for
existing and new energy generation systems (very high confidence). Energy generation diversification (e.g., via wind,
solar, small scale hydropower) and demand-side management (e.g., storage and energy efficiency improvements) can
increase energy reliability and reduce vulnerabilities to climate change (high confidence). Climate responsive energy
markets, updated design standards on energy assets according to current and projected climate change, smart-grid
technologies, robust transmission systems and improved capacity to respond to supply deficits have high feasibility in
the medium to long term, with mitigation co-benefits (very high confidence). {4.5.1} (Figure SPM.7)
